Egypt Qatar and the United States have
released a joint statement after two
days of talks in Doha backing a
so-called bridging proposal they hope
the new draft will bring Hamas and
Israel toward a ceasefire deal Hamas
which did not take part in the talks uh
is accusing Israel of negotiating in bad
faith the talks are aimed at ending the
10-month long war in Gaza securing the
release of Israeli hostages and averting
a wider Regional configration
and negotiations are set to resume next
week in Cairo speaking to reporters in
Washington US President Joe Biden
expressed optimism about the new deal
I'll say one thing about one of the
reason why I was late for you all was I
was dealing with the ceasefire effort in
the Middle East and uh we are closer
than we've ever been I don't want to
jinx anything may have something but
we're not there yet but it's much much
closer than it was 3 days ago so keep
your fingers thank
you let's get more on this with
journalist balik sadine in Tel Aviv
who's been following the story for us so
Biden there sounding quite optimistic
Israel has now also put out a statement
saying it appreciates the mediator
efforts to convince Hamas to agree to a
deal what do you think this statement
tells us about Israel's thinking on the
way the talks are going so
far well um that takes us back to
the um position that the Prime Minister
holds that the few not changes exactly
but more clarifications that Israel has
requested from the mediators should be
actually um accepted by Hamas and uh he
is hoping or Israel is hoping that the
mediators will put more pressure on
Hamas in order to reach that deal in
Israel there are some
talks that the fact that the ation that
went to CYO on Thursday stayed one more
night it was supposed to come back in
the same night but stayed one more night
because of the impression that D Bara
the head of the mad and the other
members of the
delegation when they met their Qatari
counterparts and the Qatari officials
saying that or at least according to
sources they are putting more pressure
on Hamas and that's why they stayed one
more night and they made more talks on
the topic on Friday as well so today as
well and the talks as I said are uh that
as you said excuse me are presumed to um
resume on Sunday Cairo and supposed to
be um dealing with or focusing on the
Philadelphia Corridor issue yeah tell us
more about that what are these remaining
gaps that the mediators are hoping to
address well two main issues and the
third bigger issue let's say the first
two issu issues that are being uh um
dealt with right now is the Philadelphia
Kor prime minister Netanyahu wants the
Israeli Army to stay in the Philadelphia
Corridor uh in the first um uh phase of
the deal the deal is supposed to be
three phases so the first phase the
humanitarian phase naan wants Israeli
troops to stay in Philadelphia Corridor
Because he believes and of course the
other um Security Branch in Israel
believe that Hamas will be able to
rehabilit themselves if Israel gets out
of there through the tunnel networks and
through smuggling of Weaponry that's
first the second issue is the Narin
Corridor the same Corridor that Israel
made that splits the Gaza Strip into two
parts uh natany wants to monitor wants
some way some system to monitor the
people that go back to their homes to
the north of the Gaza Strip not to carry
weapons with them so not militants only
civilians until now there's no solution
for the monitoring issue and Hamas of
course refuses that and the bigger issue
is the fact that Hamas still wants
Israel to declare the end of the war at
the end of the first phase that's
another bigger issue I guess these are
the sticking points thank you for laying
those out we know US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin is flying to the region
and he set to meet Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu do we know
anything about what might take place in
this meeting
well this is his eighth or ninth if I'm
not mistaken visit to the region blinkin
um supposed to come but like I don't
think that he has anything new uh to
offer just the same as Hawkin in Lebanon
a couple of days ago he didn't have any
have any new to the Lebanese and to the
Israelis with his um visit and that's I
guess is going to be the same situation
here of course when Friday we are in
Friday night in Israel so it's the
Shabbat Israeli officials don't um put
out statements about this uh in this
time but um in the blink supposed to
meet the Israeli officials on Monday
morning Israel time and uh um to uh uh
try to convince the Israelis to go for
this um ceasefire deal and put more
pressure on Israel the Americans their
main concern right now is not to uh drag
not to be dragged into a fullblown out
war between Israel and Iran and they see
an opportunity here if Israel and Hamas
of course agree to that ceasefire deal
maybe that will be avoided and even the
entire strike that Iran is uh vowing to
uh um to conduct maybe could also be
avoided let's get the very latest here
from journalist kareim Al goari
following that story for us from Cairo
good to see you again after this second
day of talks do we know what is
contained in this so-called bridging
proposal yeah we don't have really any
details it's said that it's closing the
gaps and it's based on an old proposal
that's on the table since uh May
basically in this proposal we have
several phases uh in which uh
Palestinian prisoners and Israeli
hostages are exchanged first for a six
weeks Fe ceasefire then for a permanent
ceas fire this proposal Israel rejected
it because they didn't accept the idea
of a permanent ceasefire and Hamas
wanted to have a full withdrawal of the
Israeli Army from the Gaza Strip now
what means here closing the gaps we
really don't know yet but it seems to be
that there's enough in it that all
parties will meet again end of next week
in Cairo so parties meeting again in
Cairo is it too early to say what kind
of reaction we've seen from Hamas and
the Israeli side uh to what's been
discussed so
far yeah I think maybe it is too early
because uh the Israeli delegation is
leaving Doha now back to Israel where
they have to of course bring this back
to the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
netan who is going to meet also on
Monday the US Secretary of State anony
blinkin and of course Hamas has to bring
back the proposal to um uh
Yahya Sinar in Gaza in order also to say
what they say about it there's a first
statement in officially by Hamas saying
that this is not what was agreed upon
until now but that as I said is an
inofficial statement we really have to
wait what the leadership itself is going
to say about this so still waiting as
you say from That official statement
from the Hamas leadership talks are due
to continue next week in Cairo can you
just spell out for us a little bit more
where we think we are going to see these
remaining obstacles
well um I mean what is interesting is
the pressure the pressure that is done
now mainly I think by the US it's
interesting that um the US was the US
was the one who blocked VTO ceasefire
ideas in the UN Security Council for
many months now it seems that a
ceasefire cannot come fast enough for
the US uh of course that has mainly two
reason there is the fear of a real
escalation in the with Iran with hisbah
in South in in Lebanon and with the hes
in Yemen that's one fear and there's the
upcoming US elections I think this is
why the US is trying now very very hard
to bring all sides together because they
need this success but as I said we don't
know until now what closing the gaps
here really means by substance we have
heard quite an optimistic tone coming
from the US I must say at the national
secr excuse me security spokesperson
stressing earlier today that these
remaining obstacles can be overcome do
you think we're seeing that same
optimism coming from other
mediators well that remains to be
mediators maybe I mean the decisive
thing is what Israeli Prime Minister Ben
and what Yahya senar from Hamas is going
to say about it they have the ultimate
say about it but obviously all sides are
now under enormous pressure by the US
and also by the other mediators by Egypt
and byat who are really afraid of a
further escalation in the region if this
deal doesn't come to a close and that
would be an escalation that might be
very very difficult to control well
thank you so much for joining us today
on DW news that is journalist kareim
alohar in
Cairo you're welcome